---
title: "Why DeFi will change the world"
layout: posts
---

I believe in blockchain because it has the potential to revolutionize the way we do business. Blockchain is a decentralized ledger that allows for secure, transparent, and efficient transactions. This makes it ideal for a variety of applications, specifically financial services.

One of the features of blockchain that I find most appealing is the ability to conduct atomic transactions. Atomic transactions are transactions that are either completed or not completed, with no in-between. This is important because it eliminates the risk of fraud and errors.

For example, if you were to send a wire transfer through a traditional bank, there is always the risk that the transfer could be lost or delayed. 

I recently read an article where a start-up founder was waiting hours for their wire transfer from their SVB account to their JPMC account. In this instance the balance of the SVB went to 0, while there was no update from JPMC about her account balance. The founder would've normally done a "test" to verify that it was the right account and so forth, but had to move with speed and was anxious until the money arrived on the other side. 

However, with blockchain, you could send a wire transfer directly to the other party, and the transaction would either be completed or not completed, with no chance of it being lost or delayed. Thus, there is no anxiety.

This is just one example of how blockchain can be used to improve the efficiency and security of transactions. I believe that blockchain has the potential to revolutionize the way we do business, and I am excited to see how it develops in the years to come.

In addition, blockchain transactions are more secure than traditional bank transactions. This is because blockchain is a decentralized ledger, which means that there is no central authority that can be hacked.

Overall, blockchain has an opportunity to be the winner of the banking crisis as it provides security with people's money in a new way and aren't affected by a central bank's decision to raise interest rates.
